# Data Hub


Serving as a centralized repository for financial data, QStudio's Datahub relies on Yahoo Daily as its primary data source. This feature empowers users to effortlessly manage and update financial information, ensuring a streamlined process for accessing and maintaining pertinent market data. Notably, the Datahub facilitates seamless updates from Yahoo Finance, enabling users to stay up-to-date with the latest market information. In essence, QStudio's Datahub stands as a pivotal tool, playing a crucial role in organizing and accessing financial data. Its functionality significantly optimizes the analytical workflow within the application, enhancing the overall user experience.

## Datahub Configuration
To ensure the Datahub is properly configured, use the following commands:

```python
python qstudio.py --datahub --show
```
output:
~~~console
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q S t u d i o   v0.3.5
2023 (c) Alberto Sfolcini <a.sfolcini@gmail.com>
www.surprisalx.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DATAHUB Repository
- LDO.MI.csv
- SXRT.DE.csv
- SPY5.DE.csv
- CPR.MI.csv
- BGN.MI.csv
- BAMI.MI.csv
- FTSEMIB.MI.csv
- XSX6.DE.csv
- ^GDAXI.csv
- CSSPX.MI.csv
- IVG.MI.csv
- GOLD.csv
- XESC.DE.csv
- 0P00008VP7.F.csv
- SP2D.DE.csv
- VUSA.DE.csv
- SXRV.DE.csv
- EUE.MI.csv
- AZM.MI.csv
- XNIF.MI.csv
- IUSM.DE.csv
~~~


## Datahub Usage
The Datahub simplifies managing and updating financial information within QStudio. Its key features include:

1. Centralized Data Storage:
   - The Datahub stores financial data in a central location (**./data/**).
   - Keeps data organized and easily accessible.
   
2. Update from Yahoo Finance:
   - Users can update financial data for all symbols configured or specific ones from Yahoo Finance.
   - Ensures data is current and reflects the latest market information.
   
## Example Usage

- Update all symbols: 
```python
python qstudio.py --datahub --update-all
```

- Update specific symbols: 
```python
python qstudio.py --datahub --update AAPL,GOOGL
```


## Keep your DataHub up-to-date
QStudio relies on Yahoo Finance as the primary data source for the Datahub.
Regularly updating data using the ```--update-all``` command is recommended to maintain accurate market information.

## Datahub Update with Cron
To keep QStudio's financial data up-to-date using cron, you can set up a cron job that periodically runs the command to update the datahub. Here's a step-by-step guide:

1. **Edit Crontab**
   Open your crontab configuration using the following command:

```bash
crontab -e
```

2. **Schedule the Cron Job**
   Add a line to schedule the cron job. For example, to update the datahub every day at 2:00 AM, add the following line:

```bash
0 2 * * * /path/to/QStudio --datahub --update-all >> /path/to/update_log.txt 2>&1
```
Adjust the paths according to your QStudio installation directory and the location where you want to store the update log.

The cron schedule format is as follows:

```bash
minute (0 - 59) hour (0 - 23) day of month (1 - 31) month (1 - 12) day of week (0 - 6) (Sunday to Saturday)
```

3. **Save and Exit**
   Save your changes and exit the editor.

Now, the cron job will run daily at the specified time, updating the datahub and logging the output. Make sure to monitor the log file for any potential issues.

Note: The actual cron setup might vary based on your system and user privileges. Adjust the paths and timing according to your requirements.


